vmware/vmware-vvols-deploy.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: vmware/vmware-vvols-deploy.html
keywords: tr-4400, vvols, ontap, virtual volumes, deploy
summary: 
---
= Deploying vVols Storage
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Creating vVols storage for your VMs involves several steps. These steps are simpler if you are using an ASA r2 system with ONTAP tools 10.3 or later.

The first two steps may not be needed for an existing vSphere environment that uses ONTAP for traditional datastores. You may already be using ONTAP tools for managing, automating, and reporting with your VMFS or traditional NFS based storage. These steps are covered in more detail in the following section:

. Create the Storage Virtual Machine (SVM) and its protocol configuration. Note that this may not be required for ASA r2 systems since they will typically already have a single SVM for data services. You will select NVMe/FC (ONTAP tools 9.13 only), NFSv3, NFSv4.1, iSCSI, FCP, or a mix of those options. NVMe/TCP and NVMe/FC may also be used for traditional VMFS datastores with ONTAP tools 10.3. You may use either ONTAP System Manager wizards, or the cluster shell command line.
* At least one LIF per node for each switch/fabric connection. As a best practice, create two or more per node for FCP, iSCSI, or NVMe-based protocols. One LIF per node is sufficient for NFS-based vVols, but this LIF should be protected by an LACP ifgroup.
* Volumes may be created at this time, but it is the best practice to let the _Provision Datastore_ wizard in ONTAP tools create them. The only exception to this rule is if you plan to use vVols replication with VMware Site Recovery Manager and ONTAP tools 9. This is easier to set up with pre-existing FlexVol volumes with existing SnapMirror relationships. Be mindful to not enable QoS on any volumes to be used for vVols as this is intended to be managed by SPBM and ONTAP tools.

. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/deploy/ontap-tools-deployment.html[Deploy ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere] using the OVA downloaded from the NetApp Support Site.
. If you use the legacy ONTAP tools 9.x, you will need to deploy an appliance for each vCenter you plan to manage. ONTAP tools 10.0 and later supports multiple vCenter servers per appliance.
. ONTAP tools 10.3 deploys as a single node small-type appliance suitable for most non-vVols workloads.

[NOTE]
For vVols production use, it is recommended to https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/manage/edit-appliance-settings.html[scale-out ONTAP tools] 10.3 to the 3-node high availability (HA) configuration.

[NOTE]
In order to eliminate a single point of failure, create anti-affinity rules to prevent the ONTAP tools VMs from running together on the same host. After initial deployment, it's also optional, but a good idea, to use storage vMotion to separate them into different datastores. Read more about https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/vsphere-resource-management-8-0/using-drs-clusters-to-manage-resources/using-affinity-rules-without-vsphere-drs.html[Using Affinity Rules without vSphere DRS] or https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/vsphere-resource-management-8-0/using-drs-clusters-to-manage-resources/create-a-vm-vm-affinity-rule.html[Create a VM-VM Affinity Rule] Likewise, if you use storage DRS, create a storage DRS rule as per https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/add-a-vm-anti-affinity-rule.html[Add a VM Anti-Affinity Rule
].

[start=5]
. Configure ONTAP tools 10.3 for your environment.
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-vcenter.html[Add vCenter Server instances] in the ONTAP tools manager UI.
* ONTAP tools 10.3 supports secure multitenancy. If you do not need secure multitenancy, you may simply https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-storage-backend.html[add your ONTAP clusters] by going to the ONTAP tools menu in vCenter and clicking on _Storage backends_ and clicking the _add_ button.
* In a secure multitenant environment where you wish to delegate specific Storage Virtual Machines (SVMs) to specific vCenters, you must do the following.
** Log into the ONTAP tools manager UI
** https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-storage-backend.html[Onboard the storage cluster]
** https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/associate-storage-backend.html[Associate a storage backend with a vCenter Server instance]
** Provide the specific SVM credentials to the vCenter administrator who will then add the SVM as a storage backend in the ONTAP tools storage backends menu in vCenter.

[NOTE]
It is a best practice to create RBAC roles for your storage accounts. ONTAP tools 9.13 and later (including 10.X) include a JSON file containing the necessary role permissions neaded by ONTAP tools accounts. You can upload the JSON file to ONTAP System Manager to simplify the creation of RBAC roles and users. You can read more about ONTAP RBAC roles at https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/configure-user-role-and-privileges.html#svm-aggregate-mapping-requirements[Configure ONTAP user roles and privileges].

[NOTE]
The reason that the entire cluster must be onboarded in the ONTAP tools manager UI is because many of the APIs used for vVols are only available at the cluster level.

[start=6]
. Use the _ONTAP tools_ menu in vCenter to start the _Provision datastore_ wizard.

image:vvols-deploy-1.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

* Choose vVols and provide a meaningful name and select the desired protocol. You may provide a description of the datastore as well.

** ONTAP tools 10.3 with ASA r2.

image:vvols-deploy-2.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Select the ASA r2 system SVM and click _next_.

image:vvols-deploy-3.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _finish_

image:vvols-deploy-4.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** It's that easy!

* ONTAP tools 10.3 with ONTAP FAS, AFF, and ASA prior ASA r2.
** Select the protocol

image:vvols-deploy-5.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Select the SVM and click _next_.

image:vvols-deploy-5a.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _add new volumes_ or _use existing volume_ and specify the attributes. Note that in ONTAP tools 10.3 you can request multiple volumes be created at the same time. You may also manually add multiple volumes to balance them across the ONTAP cluster. Click _next_

image:vvols-deploy-6.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

image:vvols-deploy-7.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _finish_

image:vvols-deploy-8.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** You can see the assigned volumes in the ONTAP tools menu of the configure tab for the datastore.

image:vvols-deploy-9.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

* Now you can create VM storage policies from the _Policies and Profiles_ menu in the vCenter UI.

[start=7]
. Create your VMs, selecting a VM Storage Policy and compatible datastore under Select storage.

== Migrating VMs from traditional datastores to vVols
Migration of VMs from traditional datastores to a vVols datastore is as simple as moving VMs between traditional datastores. Simply select the VM(s), then select Migrate from the list of Actions, and select a migration type of _change storage only_. When prompted, select a VM storage policy that matches your vVols datastore. Migration copy operations can be offloaded with vSphere 6.0 and later for SAN VMFS to vVols migrations, but not from NAS VMDKs to vVols.

== Managing VMs with policies
To automate storage provisioning with policy based management, you need to create VM storage policies that map to the desired storage capabilities.

[NOTE]
ONTAP tools 10.0 and later no longer use Storage Capability Profiles like previous versions. Instead, the storage capabilities are defined directly in the VM storage policy itself.

*Creating vVols Datastores with ONTAP tools 9.X*
Once the necessary SCPs have been created, they may be used to create the vVols datastore (and optionally, FlexVol volumes for the datastore). Right-click on the host, cluster, or datacenter on which you want to create the vVols datastore, then select _ONTAP tools_ > _Provision Datastore_. Select one or more SCPs to be supported by the datastore, then select from existing FlexVol volumes and/or provision new FlexVol volumes for the datastore. Finally, specify the default SCP for the datastore, which will be used for VMs that do not have an SCP specified by policy, as well as for swap vVols (these do not require high performance storage).

=== Creating VM Storage Policies
VM Storage Policies are used in vSphere to manage optional features such as Storage I/O Control or vSphere Encryption. They are also used with vVols to apply specific storage capabilities to the VM. Use the “NetApp.clustered.Data.ONTAP.VP.vvol” storage type. See link:vmware-vvols-ontap.html#Best Practices[example network configuration using vVols over NFS v3] for an example of this with the ONTAP tools VASA Provider. Rules for “NetApp.clustered.Data.ONTAP.VP.VASA10” storage are to be used with non-vVols based datastores.

Once the storage policy has been created, it can be used when provisioning new VMs.

image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-01.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-02.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-03.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-04.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-05.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-06.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-07.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]

==== Performance management with ONTAP tools
ONTAP tools uses its own balanced placement algorithm to place a new vVol in the best FlexVol volume with unified or classic ASA systems, or Storage Availability Zone (SAZ) with ASA r2 systems, within a vVols datastore. Placement is based on matching the backing storage with the VM storage policy. This makes sure that the datastore and backing storage can meet the specified performance requirements.

Changing Performance capabilities such as Min and Max IOPS requires some attention to the specific configuration.
* *Min and Max IOPS* may be specified in a VM Policy.
** Changing the IOPS in the policy will not change QoS on the vVols until the VM Policy is reapplied to the VMs that use it. Or you may create a new policy with the desired IOPS and apply it to the target VMs. Generally it is recommended to simply define separate VM storage policies for different tiers of service and simply change the VM storage policy on the VM.
** ASA, ASA r2, AFF and FAS personalities have different IOPs settings. Both Min and Max are available on all flash systems; however, non-AFF systems can only use Max IOPs settings.

* ONTAP tools creates individual non-shared QoS policies with currently supported versions of ONTAP. Therefore, each individual VMDK will receive its own allocation of IOPs.

===== Reapplying VM Storage Policy
image:vvols-image16.png[role="thumb" "Reapplying VM Storage Policy",300]

Commit message:

Added warning about using the backup utility

vmware/vmware-vvols-deploy.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: vmware/vmware-vvols-deploy.html
keywords: tr-4400, vvols, ontap, virtual volumes, deploy
summary: 
---
= Deploying vVols Storage
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Creating vVols storage for your virtual machines involves several steps. NetApp's new ASA r2 systems are optimized for VMware workloads and offer a simpler user experience compared to traditional ONTAP systems. When using ASA r2 systems, ONTAP tools version 10.3 or later requires fewer steps to set up.

You can skip the first two steps of the deployment process if you are already using ONTAP tools to manage, automate, and report on your existing VMFS or traditional NFS-based storage. More details about the deployment steps will be covered in the following section.

. Create the Storage Virtual Machine (SVM) and its protocol configuration. Note that this may not be required for ASA r2 systems since they will typically already have a single SVM for data services. You will select NVMe/FC (ONTAP tools 9.13 only), NFSv3, NFSv4.1, iSCSI, FCP, or a mix of those options. NVMe/TCP and NVMe/FC may also be used for traditional VMFS datastores with ONTAP tools 10.3. You may use either ONTAP System Manager wizards, or the cluster shell command line.
* At least one LIF per node for each switch/fabric connection. As a best practice, create two or more per node for FCP, iSCSI, or NVMe-based protocols. One LIF per node is sufficient for NFS-based vVols, but this LIF should be protected by an LACP ifgroup.
* Volumes may be created at this time, but it is the best practice to let the _Provision Datastore_ wizard in ONTAP tools create them. The only exception to this rule is if you plan to use vVols replication with VMware Site Recovery Manager and ONTAP tools 9. This is easier to set up with pre-existing FlexVol volumes with existing SnapMirror relationships. Be mindful to not enable QoS on any volumes to be used for vVols as this is intended to be managed by SPBM and ONTAP tools.

. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/deploy/ontap-tools-deployment.html[Deploy ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere] using the OVA downloaded from the NetApp Support Site.
. If you use the legacy ONTAP tools 9.x, you will need to deploy an appliance for each vCenter you plan to manage. ONTAP tools 10.0 and later supports multiple vCenter servers per appliance.
. ONTAP tools 10.3 deploys as a single node small-type appliance suitable for most non-vVols workloads.

[NOTE]
For vVols production use, it is *strongly* recommended to https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/manage/edit-appliance-settings.html[scale-out ONTAP tools] 10.3 to the 3-node high availability (HA) configuration.

[NOTE]
For production vVols use, you should eliminate any single point of failure. Create anti-affinity rules to prevent the ONTAP tools VMs from running together on the same host. After initial deployment, it's also optional, but a good idea, to use storage vMotion to separate them into different datastores. Read more about https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/vsphere-resource-management-8-0/using-drs-clusters-to-manage-resources/using-affinity-rules-without-vsphere-drs.html[Using Affinity Rules without vSphere DRS] or https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/vsphere-resource-management-8-0/using-drs-clusters-to-manage-resources/create-a-vm-vm-affinity-rule.html[Create a VM-VM Affinity Rule] Likewise, if you use storage DRS, create a storage DRS rule as per https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-cis/vsphere/vsphere/8-0/add-a-vm-anti-affinity-rule.html[Add a VM Anti-Affinity Rule
]. You should also schedule frequent backups, and/or https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/manage/enable-backup.html#create-backup-and-download-the-backup-file[use the built-in configuration backup utility].

[start=5]
. Configure ONTAP tools 10.3 for your environment.
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-vcenter.html[Add vCenter Server instances] in the ONTAP tools manager UI.
* ONTAP tools 10.3 supports secure multitenancy. If you do not need secure multitenancy, you may simply https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-storage-backend.html[add your ONTAP clusters] by going to the ONTAP tools menu in vCenter and clicking on _Storage backends_ and clicking the _add_ button.
* In a secure multitenant environment where you wish to delegate specific Storage Virtual Machines (SVMs) to specific vCenters, you must do the following.
** Log into the ONTAP tools manager UI
** https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/add-storage-backend.html[Onboard the storage cluster]
** https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/associate-storage-backend.html[Associate a storage backend with a vCenter Server instance]
** Provide the specific SVM credentials to the vCenter administrator who will then add the SVM as a storage backend in the ONTAP tools storage backends menu in vCenter.

[NOTE]
It is a best practice to create RBAC roles for your storage accounts. ONTAP tools 9.13 and later (including 10.X) include a JSON file containing the necessary role permissions neaded by ONTAP tools accounts. You can upload the JSON file to ONTAP System Manager to simplify the creation of RBAC roles and users. You can read more about ONTAP RBAC roles at https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere-10/configure/configure-user-role-and-privileges.html#svm-aggregate-mapping-requirements[Configure ONTAP user roles and privileges].

[NOTE]
The reason that the entire cluster must be onboarded in the ONTAP tools manager UI is because many of the APIs used for vVols are only available at the cluster level.

[start=6]
. Use the _ONTAP tools_ menu in vCenter to start the _Provision datastore_ wizard.

image:vvols-deploy-1.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

* Choose vVols and provide a meaningful name and select the desired protocol. You may provide a description of the datastore as well.

** ONTAP tools 10.3 with ASA r2.

image:vvols-deploy-2.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Select the ASA r2 system SVM and click _next_.

image:vvols-deploy-3.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _finish_

image:vvols-deploy-4.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** It's that easy!

* ONTAP tools 10.3 with ONTAP FAS, AFF, and ASA prior ASA r2.
** Select the protocol

image:vvols-deploy-5.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Select the SVM and click _next_.

image:vvols-deploy-5a.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _add new volumes_ or _use existing volume_ and specify the attributes. Note that in ONTAP tools 10.3 you can request multiple volumes be created at the same time. You may also manually add multiple volumes to balance them across the ONTAP cluster. Click _next_

image:vvols-deploy-6.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

image:vvols-deploy-7.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** Click _finish_

image:vvols-deploy-8.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

** You can see the assigned volumes in the ONTAP tools menu of the configure tab for the datastore.

image:vvols-deploy-9.png[role="thumb" "Provision datastore wizard",300]

* Now you can create VM storage policies from the _Policies and Profiles_ menu in the vCenter UI.

[start=7]
. Create your VMs, selecting a VM Storage Policy and compatible datastore under Select storage.

== Migrating VMs from traditional datastores to vVols
Migration of VMs from traditional datastores to a vVols datastore is as simple as moving VMs between traditional datastores. Simply select the VM(s), then select Migrate from the list of Actions, and select a migration type of _change storage only_. When prompted, select a VM storage policy that matches your vVols datastore. Migration copy operations can be offloaded with vSphere 6.0 and later for SAN VMFS to vVols migrations, but not from NAS VMDKs to vVols.

== Managing VMs with policies
To automate storage provisioning with policy based management, you need to create VM storage policies that map to the desired storage capabilities.

[NOTE]
ONTAP tools 10.0 and later no longer use Storage Capability Profiles like previous versions. Instead, the storage capabilities are defined directly in the VM storage policy itself.

*Creating vVols Datastores with ONTAP tools 9.X*
Once the necessary SCPs have been created, they may be used to create the vVols datastore (and optionally, FlexVol volumes for the datastore). Right-click on the host, cluster, or datacenter on which you want to create the vVols datastore, then select _ONTAP tools_ > _Provision Datastore_. Select one or more SCPs to be supported by the datastore, then select from existing FlexVol volumes and/or provision new FlexVol volumes for the datastore. Finally, specify the default SCP for the datastore, which will be used for VMs that do not have an SCP specified by policy, as well as for swap vVols (these do not require high performance storage).

=== Creating VM Storage Policies
VM Storage Policies are used in vSphere to manage optional features such as Storage I/O Control or vSphere Encryption. They are also used with vVols to apply specific storage capabilities to the VM. Use the “NetApp.clustered.Data.ONTAP.VP.vvol” storage type. See link:vmware-vvols-ontap.html#Best Practices[example network configuration using vVols over NFS v3] for an example of this with the ONTAP tools VASA Provider. Rules for “NetApp.clustered.Data.ONTAP.VP.VASA10” storage are to be used with non-vVols based datastores.

Once the storage policy has been created, it can be used when provisioning new VMs.

image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-01.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-02.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-03.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-04.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-05.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-06.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]
image:vmware-vvols-deploy-vmsp-07.png[role="thumb" "VM Storage Policy creation with ONTAP tools VASA Provider 9.10",300]

==== Performance management with ONTAP tools
ONTAP tools uses its own balanced placement algorithm to place a new vVol in the best FlexVol volume with unified or classic ASA systems, or Storage Availability Zone (SAZ) with ASA r2 systems, within a vVols datastore. Placement is based on matching the backing storage with the VM storage policy. This makes sure that the datastore and backing storage can meet the specified performance requirements.

Changing Performance capabilities such as Min and Max IOPS requires some attention to the specific configuration.
* *Min and Max IOPS* may be specified in a VM Policy.
** Changing the IOPS in the policy will not change QoS on the vVols until the VM Policy is reapplied to the VMs that use it. Or you may create a new policy with the desired IOPS and apply it to the target VMs. Generally it is recommended to simply define separate VM storage policies for different tiers of service and simply change the VM storage policy on the VM.
** ASA, ASA r2, AFF and FAS personalities have different IOPs settings. Both Min and Max are available on all flash systems; however, non-AFF systems can only use Max IOPs settings.

* ONTAP tools creates individual non-shared QoS policies with currently supported versions of ONTAP. Therefore, each individual VMDK will receive its own allocation of IOPs.

===== Reapplying VM Storage Policy
image:vvols-image16.png[role="thumb" "Reapplying VM Storage Policy",300]
